# PredictiveQuality
The traditional Statistical Process Control (SPC) software allows Quality Assurance (QA) Resources to capture measurements for critical variables. They collect data at a certain periodicity to keep the manufacturing process under control, trying to obtain consistent products at the end of the line. That functionality is vital to monitoring the manufacturing lines, enabling operators to detect and correct issues as the process alarms trigger. 
This study focuses on an effort to create a more significant competitive advantage. We enhanced the conventional SPC software while improving the manufacturing process and enriching the QA's abilities to work with Predictive Quality. We described a Data Science methodology that minimizes failures by predicting which products will not pass quality controls based on data points collected as they move through the manufacturing lines. The data points include the standard SPC measurements of the process, and we added tooling and process setting dimensions for more accurate predictions.
Continuous improvement professionals, manufacturing managers, Six Sigma project managers, software engineers, and data scientists learn an approach to predicting defects early. We centered on defining the problem, presenting valuable recipes for preparing the data, and applying Machine Learning techniques to achieve the goal. The data preparation step focused on navigating from a typical SPC data structure to a standardized dataset rather than the data itself. Such action allows re-using the technique in almost any type of manufacturing facility. Still, we presented anonymized data for the examples with a stronger emphasis on One-Class SVM and Gradient Boosting Machine methods to solve the problem and the rationale behind them.

Keywords: predictive quality, predictive analytics, data mining, machine learning, binary classification, feature engineering, imbalanced dataset, One-Class SVM, Gradient Boosting Classifier.
